# Squares of First N numbers (using an array -- Basics)

* Here we are going to print the squares of N numbers using GPU. We will be taking the help of the thread and blockI Id's to do this. In the end we will store the reuslts in an array and print using the CPU.
* We compile the program using the following command: ``` nvcc main.cu -o main ```
* We can run the program using the following command: ``` ./main <numBl> <numTh> ```. Here "numBl" represent the number of blocks we will launch and "numTh" represents the number of threads we launch per block. 
* N which is the total number of element squares we will find is equal to product of number of blocks and threads we launch. ``` N = numTh * numBl ```.
* Each thread belonging to a block has its own threadId and similarly each block has its own unique blockId. Utilizing these, we can assign every thread to a unique number. We can calculate the number using the following formula: ``` i = blockIdx.x * blockDim.x + threadIdx.x ```. Here "blockIdx.x" represents the block Id in the x-direction. Similarly "threadIdx.x" is the thread id within a block in x-direction. We are referring to them using directions as we we can consider the block to be a 3/n dimensional space. "blockDim.x is the number of threads we are launching per block.
* To store the results in an array, we first need to create the array in the GPU memory. To do that we use "cudaAlloc" which allocates memory on the GPU : ``` cudaAlloc(&darr, sizeof(int)*N) ```. Here darr is the array we defined on the GPU. 
* As we can observe inside the "dkernel" function, we are stooring the resulls in the array. Now we have our final array, but how do we get the array into the cpu memory? For that, we use "cudaMemcpy". Using this we can copy the contents of array on GPU into an array in CPU : ``` cudaMemcpy(arr, darr, N*sizeof(int), cudaMemcpyDeviceToHost); ```. "arr" is the array on CPU and we are copying the content from "darr" on GPU into arr and total size of content is "N*sizeof(int)". The final parameter which is "cudaMemcpyDeviceToHost" is the direction of the memory copying. 
* After executing, we will see the squares of first N elements.  